Uh let's bring in Mimman Low uh with the
latest. Mman,
>> yes, we just got the verdict. Guilty of
all charges. The sentencing will be
announced on a separate day, but yes,
the maximum sentence could be life in
prison. And Jimmy Li will have up to 28
days to appeal the verdict. Uh, and just
now in the courtroom, the judges were
reading through some of the WhatsApp
messages between him and his assistant,
pointing to how his assistant had helped
to set up meetings between Jaime Lie and
some senior US officials and pointed to
how there was indisputable evidence uh
and said that he had harbored intent to
to collude with foreign forces and so
on. It was a a very long readout of the
concluding remarks and the the total
verdict is uh over 800 pages long I
believe. Uh and that will be made uh
online uh later on so we can pour
through the details. But yes, this is of
course the conclusion of a landmark
trial, a marathon trial that lasted over
150 days. Uh and it's a very
high-profile case because Jimmy Lie is a
household name in Hong Kong. Many people
know him as the founder of Apple Daily
once uh a now defunct newspaper that was
a very pro-democracy. It often urge
readers to take to the street streets.
It is known for its tabloid style
coverage of politics of celebrity news
as well. Uh and he was one of the first
uh to be charged under the national
security law after it was imposed by
Beijing back in June 2020. He was
arrested and charged uh in August of
that year.
>> We were talking about how western
governments have been watching this
case, this marathon trial as you've been
reporting, Minman for more than 150 days
or so. You know what what likely might
occur from this verdict? Now, um you
know, obviously we heard from President
Trump. He's he's talked about according
to some reports vowed to save lie. You
know, is this likely going to raise more
tensions abroad?
Yeah, certainly I think we'll have to
watch closely what is the international
reaction after this. You know whether
there will be more sanctions from the
likes of the US and UK on Chinese
officials for example. We know that
already after the imposition of the
national security law. Trump who was
then president had uh halted the
preferential treatment for Hong Kong uh
and sanctioned some officials that
cracked down on rights. uh and certainly
President Trump has said that he raised
this issue again when he recently met
with presidency in South Korea in
October. So this could come up once
again maybe when the two president meet
two presidents meet next year could be
part of the bargaining check. It would
be interesting to see whether China
would be willing to give Trump a win by
suspending this sentence on medical
grounds for example in exchange for some
other concessions perhaps on trade or
tariffs. But suddenly this is all
speculation at this point. We'll have to
see what the international reaction is.
But the UK Prime Minister Kama had also
said that it is a priority of his
administration to secure the release of
Jimmy Li and many international
organizations have been appealing on
humanitarian grounds and on medical
grounds to release Jimmy Lie given the
deterioration of his health. His family
members saying that he suffers from
heart palpitation and his health has
been deteriorating. He has looked vis
visibly thinner over the years.
And we are getting some lines now in
terms of uh the time frame here. Uh the
hearing for the mitigation of Jimmy Li's
case is set for January 12th. So that
date has been set uh for the hearing for
that. Um Mman, you talk about his
health, you talk about really the the
the significance of this. This this case
has largely been seen as sort of a a
test case of this national security law
when it comes to freedom of press and
when it comes to judicial independence
here in the city. You know what what's
the message it's going to send really to
the international community with this
case?
I mean it was a clear verdict from the
judges and obviously it is sending a
message that China is not going to
tolerate any form of you know uh
violation of the national security law
right the sort of protest that we saw in
2019 and 2020. Obviously here at this at
this courthouse you can see that around
me there are many police officers just
maintaining the security of this place
ensuring that there is no disturbances
no sort of large scale gathering of
people that that could spiral out of
control and even when I was talking to
some of the supporters who queued
overnight to go into the courthouse many
of them were wearing masks or covering
their faces with umbrellas not very keen
to show their face or speak to the media
at all and there's this sense of
cautiousness that everybody is uh is is
taking here especially after you know
Hong Kong suffered from that deadly fire
as well. Soon after that fire the
national security office also warned uh
people not to use that fire as a pretext
to incite chaos in Hong Kong. So this
city has seen a lot of changes. We had
seen the closure of dozens of civil
service groups. Of course, over the
weekend as well, the Hong Kong uh the
Democratic Party also voted to dissolve
itself. Uh the former chairwoman Emily
Lao announced that on Facebook, marking
the end of an opposition party that has
been operating since 1994. A party that
has been very outspoken in pushing
Beijing for democratic reforms and
calling for universal suffrage in Hong
Kong as well.